# Thoughts on gCRM for opps creator


User needs to be able to easily insert their opportunity information (via a code that can easily be split in the different fields, or some other way)

The user then is able to follow its opportunity, compare it to its peers opportunities. By a tagging system the user can define its opportunity, maybe tags that are set up from us depending on the client service, or tags that are organically created and aggregated in the most used ones. It doesn’t have to be tags, but something that can link with a similar interest together. This way the opportunity creator can have a look at previous opportunities that are about the same topic, same offering or product and they can learn from what has been done well and what has been done badly. It can also compare its opportunity with the movement of peer opportunities in the pipeline. Moreover it can gather information about the account, and opportunities that had the same account, so that he can see the key stakeholders in the client firm, and can see previous interactions with them, their preferences, how to win them over, what not to do with them. It also allows the opportunity creator to be able to connect with people that are experts with the account, experts with the offering they are providing, have some relationship with the account key stakeholders, or general people who put themselves forward to nurture opportunities of a particular nature. A visual representation of a net of relationship is crucial.

The graphical interface must be clean and easy to use. Obviously it has to be wave, being a Salesforce tool. It must be easy to communicate with the internal helpers has mentioned in the previous paragraph, it has to be easy to compare with peer opportunities and creators, easy to tweak the opportunity information (move the stage, create a funding request, general requests for help, equipment, expertise).

The tool has to be linked with staffit or sap, and fully integrated, so that an opportunity creator knows when the people he needs are available and can easily reach out to them. Also the tool will allow employees to communicate with the creators so that it would be easy for them to be able to find new projects in return. The tool will allow creators to use forms to easily find the right people they need, aligned to their business, to what the employees are good at and looking forward, and aligned to timings on when they roll off projects.

The system will also allow creators to be able to review an account “Business” and type of opportunities are currently ongoing and being created. This is to allow creators to pick the right moment to work on a new bid, and also it will prevent duplication of efforts and actually joining efforts between parties interested in applying for similar types of work. This will also boost cooperation, as creators will be made aware of opportunities that have been won or opened, so that they can reach out and apply for related opportunities that can be attached to a main one. This will also include a system that monitors the audit cycle.

The user can setup different targets for himself and for his team. Also he will be able to review his past-present-future performance with trends and projections. He can forecast how long his budget will last, how much similar opportunities had to spend to be won, how long it took for funding requests to be accepted to that he can plan ahead. He also can learn how long the client behaves, how long it usually take to move from one stage to the other.

NEED TO LEARN MORE ON HOW BIDS ARE STARTED, WHO GETS THE NEWS THAT A COMPANY HAS THE NEED FOR A NEW PIECE OF WORK, WHO DOES USUALLY START THE PROCESS OF A BID
